This demo features an interactive 3D plot coordinated with a 2D plot
that uses color for the third dimension.  The 3D plot is displayed using
the ESPS program plot3d.  The 2D plot is displayed using xwaves+.  
Cursor coordination is achieved using the xwaves+ display server 
capability.  The data are from a Mariner photo of Saturn.  

Some things to try:

CURSOR COORDINATION

Move the mouse within the 3D box. A 3D cursor (with digital
readouts) identifies each point; note the coordination with the 2D
xwaves+ cursor.

3D PERSPECTIVE

Change the perspective of the 3D plot.  The are several ways to do
this.  For example, with the mouse in the 3D display, press the middle
mouse button and move the mouse around.  The bounding box will show
the new perspective.  Replot the data by clicking on "plot" in the
plot3d control window (you may have to bring the window forward) or
via a menu operation available by pressing the right mouse button in
the plot window.  Try the same thing with the left mouse button (the
coordinate transformation is different.)  Detailed controls are
available via the sliders and data entry items in the control panel.

COLORMAP MANIPULATION

Change colormaps via the "Set Color Map" pull-down menu (right mouse
it) in the "Colors" control panel.  Put the mouse in the xwaves+ 2D
(color) display.  Press the middle mouse button and move it around --
this changes the mapping of intensity to colors.  To see the mapping,
press the "Show Color Scale" button.  The vertical axis corresponds
to intensity (the Z-axis in the 3D plot); the display shows the color
assigned to each intensity level.  (The cursor is meaningless in 
this display)

THE DATA

The data are from a picture of the occultation of 28 Sagittarii by
Saturn on July 3, 1989 (look carefully, and you can see the moon
through the rings).  The paicture is derived from a 110x78 pixel image
taken with a bare CCD at the Cassegrain focus of the Yerkes 41"
reflector and posted to the sci.astro newsgroup by Bob Loewenstein.

@(#)README	1.5 11/5/91 ERL



