                Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc. 

          Unix Signal Processing Software Demonstration


This demonstration software provides a brief introduction to
Entropic's signal processing software -- the Entropic Signal
Processing System (ESPS), and the waves+ graphics interface.

The tape contains a single tar image: the directory "entropic".  This
can be loaded anywhere; root privileges are not required.  Extract the
directory with "tar xvf /dev/rst8". Set your umask to 022 ("umask
022") before reading the tar tape so that anyone can execute the demo.
More restrictive umasks may break the demo for certain groups of
users.  The demo only requires write permission in the directory /tmp,
so changing the modes on the files to global read and execute
permission only ("chmod -R 555 entropic") will not break the demo.

Requirements and recommendations are as follows:

	1) SPARC CPU running at least Sun OS 4.0.3 (must) 

	2) color display (highly desirable, as many things will
                          not work without one) 

	3) 27 MB disk space (must) 

	4) 8 MB memory (must), with 16 MB highly desirable

	5) X Windows (Sun OpenWindows 1.0.1 or 2.0B are preferred, 
           but vanilla X11-R4 should work)

	6) swap space of at least 20 MB, preferably 30MB

If Sun OpenWindows is installed, start the demo by executing the file
ENTROPIC.  This will put up a command window from which the user can
operate the demo.  Users can select various demo and voice output
alternatives, and they can bring up some additional information about
the software and the demo.

If Sun OpenWindows is not installed, start the demo by executing 
the file ENTROPIC.gen.  This has the additional effect of installing
the XView fonts.  

If you are using a SPARCstation I, the demo will sound much better if
you go to the trouble to hook up an external speaker, instead of using
the internal speaker.

For more information about the demo, see the file "edemo.about" (this 
file is one of those that can be viewed via the demo command window).  

This demo has been tested on a Sun 4/110 and a SPARCstation I running
Sun OS 4.0.3 and OpenWindows 1.0.1 or 2.0B.  Ideally, the CPU should
have 16 MB of memory and 25-30 MB of swap space.  The demo will run 
on some systems with as little as 8 MB of memory, but it can be 
quite slow (particularly under OpenWindows 1.0.1).  

The demo has been tested with the olwm window manager (both 1.0.1 and
2.0B).  It should run with any ICCCM compliant window manager, but we 
have not tested others.  

In general, the performance of the demo varies as a function of the
system configuration and load (CPU speed, disk speed, available
memory, role of NFS, network traffic, swap space, other processes,
etc.).  Since there is no foolproof method of synchronizing speech
output with the actual appearance of particular windows, inadequate
system resources may result not just in a slower demo, but in a
confusing demo.

If the demo is not smooth, try running it without speech output, as it
is most reliable in this mode (it is also faster).  If there is
considerable trouble, some system adjustments may be necessary; 
see the recommendations below.

After the final screen image is displayed, the demo attempts to
refresh the entire screen (by a shell call to xrefresh).  On some
systems, this will leave everything visible, but with a weird
colormap.  In this case, just refresh manually from the root window.

If additional swap space is needed, the following procedure can be
used (by a super-user): First, create a swap file with mkfile(1).  For
example, to create a 25MB swap file called "swapfile" in /home:

	%mkfile -v 25M /home/swapfile

Then, add an entry in /etc/fstab:

	/home/swapfile  swap  swap rw  0 0 

Then reboot the system.  

On occasion, especially after frequent use, the demo may fail with
various X Errors being reported in the console or other windows.  When
this happens, it is best to exit the window manager and restart.  You
may also need to install the revised cgsix segment driver installed
(from /home/openwin/sys); this seems to be needed on certain
SPARCstation models, but not others; without it, there can be many X
errors.

We have seen situations where clicking on the manual page button in
the "Try waves+" demo hangs the window system. This is always cleared
up by rebooting the machine, and it appears that the problem can be
solved by increasing the number of allowed processes (increase
"maxusers" in the kernel configuration file).

For each loop through the demo, a log file is written in
/tmp/erldemo.log.  Problems can often be tracked down by looking at
this file.

A single run of the demo takes between 5 and 8 minutes, depending
on the system.  

For more information or for help, please contact us:

  Entropic Research Laboratory    Voice:     202-547-1420
  600 Pennsylvania Ave., S.E. 	  VAX:       202-546-6648
  Suite 202                       Internet:  esps@wrl.epi.com
  Washington, D.C. 20003          uucp:	     ...uunet!epiwrl!esps
  USA

Particular contacts are:

	John Shore (shore@wrl.epi.com)         [first choice]
	Alan Parker (parker@wrl.epi.com)
	David Burton (burton@wrl.epi.com)


COPYRIGHT NOTICE
================

The programs, data files, and text files in this demo directory (and
subdirectories) are the property of Entropic Research Laboratory, Inc.
(Copyright (c) 1986-1990, Entropic Speech, Inc. and Entropic Research
Laboratory, Inc.; All rights reserved).  The fonts are copyright Sun
Microsystems.  The demo may be freely distributed and used by
prospective customers to evaluate Entropic Software products or by Sun
Microsystems employees to demonstrate the capabilities of workstations
and windowing software.

---
1.11 6/19/90
