Just do emake install in this directory.  You either must be root or the
owner of the ESPS files to do this.

--- Original README:   (This doesn't all apply any more)



This program will filter tektronix style plots to postscript output,
letting you use your laserprinter instead of the thermal printer that
tektronix has been selling since the dark ages.

I haven't been able to really test the defocussed Z axis stuff (no plot
programs that we have use it).

I have put as much as possible into the prolog file so a user can fairly
easily change the defaults I like to those he or she likes.  The tough
part about figuring out how this works is understanding the Tek addressing
schemes.  Other than that, it is pretty simple.  There is one `undocumented'
flag: -d, which enables more verbose messages when an otherwise ignored
character is encountered.  Usually, these are padding characters (4010s
are very slow by modern standards).

BE SURE TO EDIT THE PROGRAM (tek2ps.c, find def_pro) AND DOCUMENTATION
(tek2ps.doc, about the tenth line) to put the correct location
for the default prolog file in!

Any corrections or additions?  Let me know at:

Michael Fischbein                 msf@prandtl.arpa
                                  msf@prandtl.arc.nasa.gov
				  ...!seismo!decuac!csmunix!icase!msf


SPECIAL NOTICE FROM ENTROPIC SPEECH, INC. 

This software is derived from software that has been made available
for free distribution and public use by various individuals and
organizations.  ESI does not claim any copyrights for this software;
this software is NOT covered by ESI's license agreements for ESPS and
waves+; and the fees paid to ESI as part of these license agreements
do NOT include any payments for this software.  You are free to copy
or pass this software on to other people provided that you do not
violate restrictions placed on the software by individual authors and
provided that you do not remove any relevant notices that the authors
have included in the software.








